

                            Model Change Bulletin              
              
                                   MCB#1                         3/28/91

                           CTSCREEN (dated 91051)


     This Model Change Bulletin essentially initiates the activities of the
SCRAM BBS for this model.

      The CTSCREEN model code and supporting programs are available from this
bulletin board and complete documentation is available from the National
Technical Information Service.  For further details, read the README file that
is part of the CTSCREEN archival file that has been uploaded to the Screening 
Models section of the SCRAM BBS. 

     This model will henceforth be identified by its name and a Julian date,
i.e.: CTSCREEN (dated 91051). Future changes to this model will be identified
by an updated Julian date found on the first line of the model source code and
followed by a reference to a SCRAM BBS Model Change Bulletin (MCB#n) which
will explain the nature and contents of the changes. All Model Change
Bulletins for this model will always be available for back reference on this
BBS. In the future, notification of changes (MCBs) to this model will be made
in the SCRAM ALERTS section of this BBS immediately following the LOGON
procedure.

     The source code for this model has been compiled and tested on: 1) an IBM
PC/386 compatible using Microsoft Fortran 5.0, and 2) a VAX 8650 running VMS.
A math coprocessor chip was installed in the PC. Several accessory programs
were written and tested in Borland International's Turbo PASCAL 5.0.  Note:
The runtime for the test case was approximately 6 hours using a 386, 20 mHz
PC.

                             ******************
                             * Important Note *
                             ******************

     New Model Change Bulletins will ONLY be issued when there is a change to
the source code for this model. Changes to test cases and/or any pre and post
processors that are included in the archival file for this model will be
addressed and appropriately identified in an amendment to the model's latest
MCB with notification posted in the SCRAM ALERTS section of the BBS. 


