

                            Model Change Bulletin              
              
                                   MCB#1                  January 16, 1991

                              SDM (dated 90320)



     This Model Change Bulletin essentially initiates the activities of the
SCRAM BBS for this model.

     The SDM model code and supporting programs are available from this
bulletin board.  Software and an user's guide are available from the
National Technical Information Service.  An errata sheet will be available
after 2/15/91.  For further details, read the README file that is part of
the SDMnn archival files that are available in the Other Models section of
the SCRAM BBS. 
 
     This model will henceforth be identified by its name, Julian date, and
MCB #, i.e.: SDM (dated 90320), MCB #1.  Future changes to this model will
be identified by an updated Julian date found on the first line of the model
source code and followed by a reference to a SCRAM BBS Model Change Bulletin
(MCB#n) which will explain the nature and contents of the changes.  All
Model Change Bulletins for this model will always be available for back
reference on this BBS.  In the future, notification of changes (MCBs) to
this model will be made in the SCRAM ALERTS section of this BBS immediately
following the LOGON procedure.

     The source code for this model has been compiled and tested on an IBM
PC/AT compatible using Microsoft FORTRAN 5.0, and Lahey FORTRAN 77 (Version
4.0).  A math coprocessor chip was installed in the PC. 

                             ******************
                             * Important Note *
                             ******************

     New Model Change Bulletins will ONLY be issued when there is a change
to the source code for this model. Changes to test cases and/or any pre and
post processors that are included in the archival file for this model will
be addressed and appropriately identified in an amendment to the model's
latest MCB with notification posted in the SCRAM ALERTS section of the BBS. 

