

                            Model Change Bulletin              
              
                                   MCB#1                         6/01/90

                           CTDMPLUS (dated 90152)


     This Model Change Bulletin essentially initiates the activities of the
SCRAM BBS for this model.

      The CTDMPLUS model code and supporting programs are available from this
bulletin board and complete documentation will be available from the National
Technical Information Service about July 16, 1990. An ALERT will be posted to
SCRAM BBS when the NTIS documentation is ready. For further details, read the
README file that is part of the CTDMPnn archival files that have been uploaded
to the Other Models section of the SCRAM BBS.

     This model will henceforth be identified by its name and a Julian date,
i.e.: CTDMPLUS (dated 90152). Future changes to this model will be identified
by an updated Julian date found on the first line of the model source code and
followed by a reference to a SCRAM BBS Model Change Bulletin (MCB#n) which
will explain the nature and contents of the changes. All Model Change
Bulletins for this model will always be available for back reference on this
BBS. In the future, notification of changes (MCBs) to this model will be made
in the SCRAM ALERTS section of this BBS immediately following the LOGON
procedure.

     The source code for this model has been compiled and tested on: 1) an IBM
PC/XT, PC/AT, and a Compaq 286 using Ryan-McFarland Fortran 2.10, 2) an IBM
PC/AT compatible using Microsoft Fortran 5.0, and 3) a VAX 8650 running VMS. A
math coprocessor chip was installed in each of the PCs. Several accessory
programs were written and tested in Borland International's Turbo PASCAL 4.0.

                             ******************
                             * Important Note *
                             ******************

     New Model Change Bulletins will ONLY be issued when there is a change to
the source code for this model. Changes to test cases and/or any pre and post
processors that are included in the archival file for this model will be
addressed and appropriately identified in an amendment to the model's latest
MCB with notification posted in the SCRAM ALERTS section of the BBS. 

              **************************************************
              *                                                *
              *    Amendment #1 to Model Change Bulletin #1    *
              *                   July 12, 1990                *
              *                                                *
              **************************************************

     The source codes remain unchanged.  An older, output file, containing
some erroneous concentration data, was copied to the file, TSTORG.OUT,
located in archival file, CTDMP10.ARC.  A corrected copy was uploaded to
CTDMP10.ARC on SCRAM BBS.  One omission in the last table of the Readme file
concerning the surface input filename to CTDMPLUS was also detected, added,
and uploaded to CTDMP11.ARC.  CTDMP10.ARC and CTDMP11.ARC are ready for
downloading from SCRAM BBS.
