                    Model Change Bulletin              
              
                            MCB#1                 5/22/89

                      MPRM (dated 89142)



     This Model Change Bulletin essentially initiates the
activities of the SCRAM BBS for this program.

      The MPRM program code available from this bulletin board
is the same code that presently (05/22/89) resides on the EPA
UNAMAP Bulletin Board .  
  
      This program will henceforth be identified by its name and
a julian date, i.e.:MPRM (dated 89142). Future changes to this
program will be identified by an updated julian date found on the
first line of the model source code and followed by a reference
to a SCRAM BBS Model Change Bulletin (MCB#n) which will explain
the nature and contents of the changes. All Model Change
Bulletins for this program will always be available for back
reference on this BBS. In the future, notification of changes
(MCBs) to this model will be made in the SCRAM ALERTS section
of this BBS immediately following the LOGON procedure.

      The source code for this program has been compiled and
tested on a PC/AT computer. 

                       ******************
                       * Important Note *  
                       ******************
   
      New Model Change Bulletins will ONLY be issued when there
is a change to the source code for this program. Changes to test
cases and/or any pre and post processors that are included in the
archived file for this program will be addressed and
appropriately identified in an amendment to the program's latest
MCB with notification posted in the SCRAM ALERTS section of the
BBS. 

      Prior to downloading this program the user is encouraged to
read the text file "MPRM.DOC" found in the download section for
the MPRM program.

