                           README.TXT
                    ISC-PRIME (dated 04269)
                        August 26, 2004

Due to several notifications of issues with ISC-PRIME with
respect to operating under Windows XP, it was decided to 
recompile ISC-PRIME with a newer compiler.  This program has 
been tested under Windows XP and appears to work satisfactorly.
This does not mean it will work under all circumstances and 
configurations.  If you have problems with this version, please
report them to Peter Eckhoff, eckhoff.peter@epa.gov.

Several minor modifications were made to the source code.  They
are:

1) Lahey specific input and output code was commented out.
2) The input and output units were changed from 5 & 6 to 7 & 8,
   respectively.
3) Recompiled with a more recent compiler, Compaq Visual Fortran,
   Version 6.6c.
   
The program should be executed from the DOS or Command prompt.  
Here is an example based on the revised test case names:

c:\ISCPRIME\ISC3P PRIMETST.INP PRTST2.OUT

After executing the test case, compare PRTST2.OUT with PRTST.OUT.
There should not be any differences.  

However, if you compare the latest output, PRTST.OUT, with the 
output file produced under the older Lahey version, PRIMETST.OUT,
you will notice several differences.

old output example:

     10.0 |   1126.41931 (90100412)   1312.52197 (90100412) ... 

new output example:

      10.0 |   1126.41943 (90100412)   1312.52185 (90100412) ...

One is that the columns do not line up.  This is being attributed
to using a different compiler following a more modern standard.  

The other is that the output is slightly different in the 10 and 
100 thousandths digits.  This is being attributed to the 
differences in precision between older 16-bit Lahey compiler and 
the newer 32-bit Compaq compiler.  These types of result 
differences are of no consequence.

The original readme file has been retained below due to its
relevance.


******************* Original README follows ******************

                           README.TXT
                    ISC-PRIME (dated 97224)
                        January 25, 1999

                                
The PRIME (Plume Rise Model Enhancement) algorithms have been
incorporated into the ISCST3 (dated 96113) source code and the
new model is called ISC-PRIME(dated 97224). PRIME is the next
generation building downwash paradigm and was provided by the
Electric Power Research Institute, Project Officer: Charles
Hakkarinen.  At this point in its development, ISC-PRIME is for
review and comment only.

To facilitate your review of and comment on this model, several 
sets of files and documents are being made publicly available
through the SCRAM Website (http://www.epa.gov/scram001) and
through NTIS ((800) 553-6847 or (703) 605-6550).  

Because of the number of figures in both the "Results of the
Independent Evaluation of ISCST3 and ISC-PRIME", and the 
"Consequence Analysis for ISC-PRIME", these two documents are 
only available, in toto, from:

     National Technical Information Service (NTIS), 
     5285 Port Royal Rd.
     Springfield, VA 22161
     (800) 553-6847 
     Internet: http://www.fedworld.gov/ntis/ntishome.html

The NTIS ordering titles and PB numbers are:

     Paine, R.J. and F. Lew, 1997.  Consequence Analysis for 
     ISC-PRIME.  Prepared for the Electric Power Research
     Institute, Palo Alto, CA.  
     ENSR Document Number 2460-026-450.  (NTIS No. PB 98-156516)

     Paine, R.J. and F. Lew, 1997.  Results of the Independent
     Evaluation of ISCST3 and ISC-PRIME.  Prepared for the
     Electric Power Research Institute, Palo Alto, CA. ENSR
     Document Number 2460-026-440.  (NTIS No. PB 98-156524)

An abbreviated copy of the Independent Evaluation, with text and
most tables, is available from the SCRAM Website.  There is no
electronic copy available for the Consequence Analysis.

The following is a list of files available from the SCRAM
Website:

SCRAM Filename,  Filename  -       Description

README           ISCPRIME.TXT      this file

USEGUIDE         USEGUIDE.PDF      ISC-PRIME User's Guide   
                                   (Addendum to the ISC3 User's
                                   Guide).  Note a free Adobe
                                   Acrobat Reader (www.adobe.com)
                                   is needed in order to read a
                                   *.PDF file. 

TEKPAPR1         TEKPAPR1.PDF      Technical papers (2) presented 
TEKPAPR2         TEKPAPR2.PDF      at the 1998 AMS Conference in
                                   Phoenix, AZ

EVALRPT          ABEVLRPT.ZIP      Abbreviated copy of the ENSR
                                   Independent Evaluation of
                                   ISCST3 and ISC-PRIME.  

CONSQPAPR        CONSQPAPR.PDF     Technical paper on the ENSR 
 CONSQTBLS        CONSQTBLS.PDF    Consequence Analysis.  This 
                                   includes a separate PDF file
                                   with the accompanying tables.

PRMRPT           PRMRPT.ZIP        EPA Staff Report, Consequences 
                                   Analysis of using ISC-PRIME
                                   over the Industrial Source
                                   Complex Short Term Model.

ISCPRMSR         ISCPRMSR.ZIP      Source code for ISC-PRIME and
                                   its building dimensions
                                   preprocessor code, BPIPPRM.

PRMTESTS         PRMTESTS.ZIP      Executables, testcases, and
                                   other files necessary for
                                   running the ISC-PRIME
                                   testcase.


SETUP INSTRUCTIONS 

     To setup and run the ISC-PRIME test case, download, save,
and unZIP PRMTESTS.ZIP in its own subdirectory.  The two
executables,  BPIPPRM.EXE and ISC3P.EXE can be executed from a
MS-DOS prompt or from a Windows 3.1 or Windows 95 RUN window.  

BPIPPRM

     The building dimensions preprocessor program, BPIP, has been
modified to preprocess the same building dimension input files
for ISC-PRIME.  The modified program is called BPIPPRM and it
outputs additional values needed as input to ISC-PRIME.  BPIP 
input structure and execution lines have not been altered. 
A BPIP input file can be read by BPIPPRM without any alterations
to its input structure or values.  Further details are available 
in the Addendum to ISC3 User's Guide (The PRIME Plume Rise and 
Building Downwash Model).  

The execution line to run BPIPPRM is: BPIPPRM

     Note that BPIPPRM is coded to read the filename BPIP and to
write to the output filenames BPIP.OUT and BPIP.SUM.  The user 
does not have to add the input, output, and summary file names to 
the execution line as with the program BPIP.  However, the input 
datafile has to be copied to the file, BPIP.INP, before execution 
takes place.  During execution, no messages are printed to the 
screen.  The user's output and summary files will always be named 
BPIP.OUT and BPIP.SUM.  These two output files will have to be 
renamed to other filenames or the output will be overwritten the 
next time BPIPPRM is executed. 


     Compare BPIP.OUT with BPIPOUT.ORG for differences.
     Compare BPIP.SUM with BPIPSUM.ORG for differences.
     
     For Windows 95 users, Ultraedit (www.idmcomp.com) and other
commercial text editors have file comparison features similar in
function and output to the old MS-DOS FC command.

ISC-PRIME

     ISC3P.EXE is the ISC-PRIME executable filename.  Output from
BPIPPRM's BPIP.OUT file has already been copied and pasted into
the ISC-PRIME input file, PRIMETST.INP.  In addition to the
BUILDHGT and BUILDWID keywords and associated data from BPIP.OUT,
there are three new keywords, BUILDLEN, XBADJ, and YBADJ, and
their associated data which have also been copied to PRIMETST.INP.  
For further details, read the Addendum to ISC3 User's Guide.

The ISC-PRIME execution line is: ISC3P PRIMTETST.INP PRIMETST.OUT

     Compare PRIMETST.OUT with PRMTST.OUT

End of readme file.